[Music]
what is the - diet and why doctors call
it one of the best diets doctors say
that this diet is the most effective way
to improve your overall condition
according to the National Institute of
Health it scored a three point three out
of five in the weight loss effectiveness
category and four point five out of five
in healthy usefulness
out of 40 diets evaluated it was chosen
number one so who is this all-star it's
something called the - diet the - diet
is an easy safe and useful plan that can
help you feel better and get rid of
excess weight you can lose weight
gradually no starving or yo-yo dieting
it won't shock or stress your body out -
stands for Dietary Approaches to stop
hypertension it's a diet developed
specifically to reduce blood pressure in
those with hypertension what scientists
understood later on that this diet
results tons of other health issues it
reduces cholesterol prevent stroke and
heart failure and brings weight down to
a healthy level even for those with
obesity plus it's considered the best
diet to prevent diabetes besides
controlling blood pressure people
following it managed to improve insulin
resistance what's it all about the DASH
diet balances all the necessary
nutrients and minerals like calcium
potassium protein and fiber that are
responsible for brain and overall organ
function it improves the condition of
your hair and skin as well what's
convenient about this diet is that you
don't have to calculate and monitor each
nutrient you just need to reduce your
salt intake and eat certain recommended
foods for instance fruits vegetables
grains protein rich foods and dairy
products compared to trendy crash diets
- is different this is a complete
lifestyle change it's for people who
need to take care of their eating habits
throughout their lives there's no
cutting out or starving involved you can
have all sorts of tasty dishes you just
need to keep in mind a few general rule
it's not about the quantity of the food
as much as it is about the quality drink
67 ounces of fluids per day ideally it
should be still water or green tea just
limit the tea to no more than 4 cups a
day try to eat 5 times per day one
serving should be no more than 8 point 8
ounces so it's basically better to have
smaller portions but eat more often
limit your daily calorie intake it
should be around 2,000 to 2,500 a day if
you have a sweet tooth you'll need to
control yourself you don't have to stop
eating sweet foods completely just no
more than 5 times a week
try to eat more cereals seeds beans lean
meats and vegetables you should avoid
drinking soda or alcohol this is because
too much alcohol elevates your blood
pressure plus it harms your liver heart
and brain limit your snacks to no more
than 8 per day in between meals but have
a bite only if you're really hungry
not for remember that tobacco use is
prohibited reduce your salt intake to a
maximum of 2 to 3 teaspoons a day your
diet should include whole wheat bread
exclude smoked or fatty foods pickles
pastries and canned fish or meat what
you can eat according to the - principle
to come up with a proper diet plan you
should keep in mind your goals do you
want to lose weight or become healthier
if you want to slim down your menu
should contain fewer calories in other
words you need to reduce the size of
your servings for anyone on the DASH
diet you can have the following
cereals no more than seven servings per
day one serving should be a slice of
bread half a cup of cooked pasta or half
a cup of oatmeal for example fruit no
more than five servings a day this could
be one fruit 1/4 cup of dried fruits or
half a cup of juice vegetables 5
servings in a day half a cup of steamed
vegetables could be a serving nonfat
dairy products two to three servings per
day for instance 1.8 ounces of cheese or
five ounces of milk would do just fine
seeds beans and nuts five servings a
week one serving is 1.4 ounces animal
and vegetable fats 3 servings per day
this could be 1 teaspoon of olive or
linseed oil sweet dishes no more than
five times a week a teaspoon of honey
where jam is okay fluids again 67 ounces
per day water is preferred but green tea
and juice are fine too protein 7 ounces
of lean meat fish or eggs a day is ideal
what to avoid of course it is a diet and
lifestyle change so you'll have to avoid
all the typical unhealthy products fast
food and chips smoked and canned food
salami sausage fatty meat candy cookies
and other sweets soft drinks because our
bodies form a dependency to junk food
you can eliminate harmful products
little by little don't try to go cold
turkey you're only setting yourself up
for failure take baby steps over time
your cravings will disappear how to plan
your diet you can create your own menu
by taking into consideration the diets
rules and incorporating the products
you're allowed to eat you don't have to
do anything special to create your diet
plan you just need to include the
necessary products and gradually exclude
the bad ones if your goal is to lose
weight cut the amount of recommended
servings you can also find all kinds of
tasty - approved dishes on the internet
and abundance of recipes for appetizers
and drinks main dishes and
desserts can be found there once you
look for them Reeth lost benefits the -
diet wasn't originally designed for
weight loss but there have been some
studies proving that this eating plan
can help people get rid of unwanted
pills in a 2006 study researchers
divided 810 adults with borderline to
mild hypertension into three groups the
first roof was given some general advice
on how to change their lifestyles so
that they could get their blood pressure
under control
the second group were given instructions
to keep their sodium intake under 2,300
milligrams a day exercise and limit
their alcohol consumption people in the
third group had to follow the same
directions as those from the second
group but also eat according to the -
guidelines after a year and a half
people from the second group became
approximately eight pounds lighter while
those from the - group lost an average
of nine and a half pounds and these
results were significantly better than
the results of the first group who
managed to drop only three pounds on
average is it easy to follow the dash
eating plan first let's consult with the
experts according to those numbers from
the National Institute of Health we
mentioned earlier - scored a three point
four out of five in the category of
easiness to follow but of course we're
only human it'll be a bit hard to say no
to your favourite salty sugary or fatty
drinks
otherwise this diet doesn't restrict you
from entire food groups there are tons
of recipe options out there so you'll
definitely find something suited to your
taste get ready to experience some
difficulties going out most restaurants
serve huge portions of salty or fatty
foods so when you go out to eat opt for
fruits and vegetables and avoid soups
also ask the chef's not to season your
meal as for alcohol you can't allow
yourself a bit every now and then but
remember that you still have to limit
yourself for the ladies that's no more
than one drink a day men shouldn't have
more than two per day and what's
considered a drink that's five ounces of
wine one and a half ounces of liquor for
12 ounces of
a nice feature of this diet is that you
never feel hungry the main idea is to
have a satisfied feeling of fullness
remember no starvation yes it might be
hard to live without chips pickles or
cookies at first but your palate will
adjust plus your meals won't taste bland
if you add some spices and herbs have
you ever tried the - diet if so how did
you like it tell us in the comments
below remember to hit the like button
and subscribe to our Channel this way
we'll always stay up to date
you